documents/specification/5_Using_the_OpenCRG_tools/5_05_Creating_a_contact_point.adoc, before:

=== Creating a contact point

In order to evaluate data with the C-API, the user must create one or more _contact points_. Contact points provide access to a given data set. A contact point is identified by a unique integer ID. This ID is returned by the contact-point creation method. The number of contact points per data set is not limited.

[NOTE]
====
When creating multi-thread applications to parallelize evaluation calls, create a separate contact point for each thread. Sharing contact points across different threads will destroy data associated with that  contact point.
====

==== Prerequisites

- You have loaded an OpenCRG data set.
- You have set and applied modifiers.

==== Corresponding C functions

`int cpId = crgContactPointCreate( int dataSetId )`::
Create a contact point with the ID `cpId` for a data set with the ID `dataSetId`.


==== Corresponding Matlab functions

n/a

==== Examples

===== C examples

----
double z;

/* load CRG file */
int dataSetId = crgLoaderReadFile( 'demo.crg' );

/* create two contact points */
int cpId1 = crgContactPointCreate( dataSetId );
int cpId2 = crgContactPointCreate( dataSetId );
----

==== Related Topics

Commit message:

extend documentation on using the tools

documents/specification/5_Using_the_OpenCRG_tools/5_05_Creating_a_contact_point.adoc, after:

=== Creating and deleting contact points

In order to evaluate data with the C-API, the user must create one or more _contact points_. Contact points provide access to a given data set. A contact point is identified by a unique integer ID. This ID is returned by the contact-point creation method. The number of contact points per data set is not limited.

[NOTE]
====
When creating multi-thread applications to parallelize evaluation calls, create a separate contact point for each thread. Sharing contact points across different threads will destroy data associated with that  contact point.
====

==== Prerequisites

- You have loaded an OpenCRG data set.
- You have set and applied modifiers.

==== Corresponding C functions

`int cpId = crgContactPointCreate( int dataSetId )`::
Create a contact point with the ID `cpId` for the data set `dataSetId`.

`int crgContactPointDelete( int cpId )`::
Delete the contact point with the ID `cpId`.

`int crgContactPointDeleteAll( int dataSetId )`::
Delete all contact points associated with the data set `dataSetId`.

==== Corresponding Matlab functions

The Matlab tools do not use contact points.

==== Examples

===== C examples

----
double z;

/* load CRG file */
int dataSetId = crgLoaderReadFile( 'demo.crg' );

/* create two contact points */
int cpId1 = crgContactPointCreate( dataSetId );
int cpId2 = crgContactPointCreate( dataSetId );
----

==== Related Topics
