documents/specification/5_Using_the_OpenCRG_tools/5_13_Writing_OpenCRG_data_to_file.adoc, before:

=== Writing OpenCRG files

With the Matlab tools, OpenCRG files can be created from OpenCRG data in memory. These file use the KRBI format. Therefore, road data must be converted to type _single_ before writing it to file.

==== Prerequisites

* You have loaded or generated an OpenCRG data set.

==== Related C functions

The C-API does not provide functions for writing OpenCRG data.

==== Related Matlab functions

`[ier] = crg_write(data, file)`::
Write the OpenCRG data in `data` to the OpenCRG file `file`. The file uses the KRBI format. Therefore, road data must be converted to type _single_ first. `ier` indicates whether any errors occurred while writing the file.

`[data] = crg_single(data)`::
Convert road data in `data` to type _single_.

// TODO: should we still mention iplos_write(), as it is used by crg_write()? I assume it is not that relevant to users.
// REVIEW: correct nicht übernehmen, IPLOS ist Daimler intern und für die Community nicht wichtig. Die ipl_write und ipl_read funktionen werden innerhalb der crg_write und crg_read funktion verwendet, jedoch nicht standalone.
==== Examples

===== Matlab examples

----
% write CRG file 
ier = crg_write(crg_single(data), 'demo.crg');
----

==== Related topics

// TODO: add related topics in the end.

Commit message:

added type to crg_write

documents/specification/5_Using_the_OpenCRG_tools/5_13_Writing_OpenCRG_data_to_file.adoc, after:

=== Writing OpenCRG files

With the Matlab tools, OpenCRG files can be created from OpenCRG data in memory. These file use the KRBI format. Therefore, road data must be converted to type _single_ before writing it to file.

==== Prerequisites

* You have loaded or generated an OpenCRG data set.

==== Related C functions

The C-API does not provide functions for writing OpenCRG data.

==== Related Matlab functions

`[ier] = crg_write(data, file, type)`::
Write the OpenCRG data in `data` to the OpenCRG file `file`. The file uses the KRBI format. Therefore, road data must be converted to type _single_ first. `ier` indicates whether any errors occurred while writing the file.
//REVIEW the below line
`type` is an optional argument, default is krbi (binary), can be changed to lrfi (ascii single precision)

`[data] = crg_single(data)`::
Convert road data in `data` to type _single_.

// TODO: should we still mention iplos_write(), as it is used by crg_write()? I assume it is not that relevant to users.
// REVIEW: correct nicht übernehmen, IPLOS ist Daimler intern und für die Community nicht wichtig. Die ipl_write und ipl_read funktionen werden innerhalb der crg_write und crg_read funktion verwendet, jedoch nicht standalone.
==== Examples

===== Matlab examples

----
% write CRG file 
ier = crg_write(crg_single(data), 'demo.crg');
----

==== Related topics

// TODO: add related topics in the end.
